C++ Count function map (#5543)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/maps/terms/count/count.md

---
Title: 'count()'
Description: 'Checks if a given key occurs in the map container.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'Objects'
  - 'OOP'
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Map'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus-functions'
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/c'

> ---

Reviewer: reframed the description for better understanding

> The **`count()`** method checks if a map contains any elements with a specified `key`. As all keys in a map are unique, the function will return 1 if the element exists in the container and 0 if it does not.

Reviewer: reframed for better readability

## Syntax

```pseudo
mapName.count(key)
```

> `key` is the value that will be searched for in `mapName`.

Reviewer: The parameters are to be represented in bullet points, added the `mapName` parameter as well

> ## Codebyte Examples

Reviewer: One ## Example and one ## Codebyte Example block is needed

> In the following example, the `count()` function is used to check whether the keys `"coconuts"` and `"strawberries"` exist in the `fruits` map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `.count()` method is used to check whether the keys `"coconuts"` and `"strawberries"` exist in the `fruits` map:
```

Reviewer: Since, we addressed it as a method above, let us stick to that

> ```codebyte/cpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cpp
```

#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <string>

int main() {
  // Initializing map with items
  std::map<std::string, int> fruits {{"apples", 50}, {"bananas", 100},  {"coconuts", 20}, {"dates", 500}};

  // Checking if "coconuts" exists
  std::string key = "coconuts";

  if (fruits.count(key) > 0) {
    std::cout << "There are " << fruits[key] << " " << key << ".\n";
  } else {
    std::cout << "There are no " << key << ".\n";
  }

  // Checking if "strawberries" exists

  key = "strawberries";

  if (fruits.count(key) > 0) {
    std::cout << "There are " << fruits[key] << " " << key << ".\n";
  } else {
    std::cout << "There are no " << key << ".\n";
  }

  return 0;
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Please show the output of this code in the ```shell``` block

> The example below illustrates a scenario where the count function is used to check if an array of elements exists in a map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Codebyte Example

The example below illustrates a scenario in which the count function is used to check whether an array of elements exists in a map:
```
